Title: For the Children: A Response to "Playtime in Peril"
Category: CHAD
Date: 02/22/17 11:56
Authors: Bailey McNab
Tags: Essays, Children

  In the article, "Playtime in Peril," Lea Winerman describes that playtime has decreased in many kindergarten classes. Playtime has been replaced with math, reading and test preparation. In 2009, a report published these findings: "Three hours per day on reading and math instruction and test prep and less than half an hour each day on 'choice time,'(play). The article continues to explain why play is so important in a child's early development. Winerman explains that children are not only losing play time at school, but also outside of school where their time is spent in video games or organized sports. Parents are okay with this because they fear children will fall behind academically. Even the market has caught up to this. A new demand for "edutainment" toys which are toys meant to teach children through play, but also allow for learning that more parents can detect. Maria Montessori, founder of the Montessori curriculum, discovered that children act as little scientists. And that their interests drive their path of learning. Jean Piaget discovered that children discover and learn through exploratory play. "They [psychologists] have found that children learn spatial skills and counting through activities like playing with blocks, and they can pick up a rich vocabulary simply by hearing books read aloud ," (Winerman 2009). This quote from Winerman's article is proof that children learn better through play. Even make believe plays its own role in learning. It gives children a "knowledge of symbols that lays the foundation for reading and math," and it allows children to be creative and fun. Correlational research, research conducted to find the relationship between to things, done by Kathy Hirsh-Pasek, a psychologist, shows that children who attended "academic" preschools were found to be more anxious than children who attended play- oriented schools. All these pieces of evidence, such as the research done by psychologists and early theorists, are spread around this article by Lea Winerman who tells us that play is a key part of early child development.

  In fact, play is very important when it comes to the development of young minds. Play allows children to be imaginative and creative while learning. Play allows children to become "little scientists" if you will. It allows them to discover about this world. Children need to see, touch, taste, and smell things in order to have a better understanding of them. So, there are many reasons play is important, but I will discuss three big ideas. Play is important because it builds social skills, creates a fun environment, and creates autonomy.

  Play builds social skills. As Dolores A. Stegelin outlines, "The developmental aspects of play include the more predictable structures of play associated with children's social, cognitive, language, physical, and creative development from infancy through primary years." Play hits all levels of development, with a highlight on social and emotional development. During play, children need to learn to work with others, allow difference in opinion, and be patient. These are all skills that can be built through imaginative play or make believe. Children learn how to set boundaries and rules. For example, I used to work in a preschool that is aged 0 to 3 years old. This program is a play-based program and I used to teach in a classroom with 12 to 18 month old toddlers. I observed two children playing with two different toys, when suddenly, one toddler decided that she would like the toy her classmate is playing with. She reaches over to grab the toy from the other toddler. The victimized toddler began to cry and, seeing this reaction, the other toddler gave the toy back to him. This is teaching the children that taking things from others without permission is not good. This cannot be taught through academic work because academic work involves worksheets, homework, and constant drilling. There is hardly a chance for child to child interactions Children need experience.

  Play also creates a fun learning environment. Children can learn without even knowing that they are learning. As was discussed in the article, "Playtime in Peril," children learn spatial skills and counting through activities like building blocks or playing with balls. This can give them their basic math foundation skills. This can also define the difference between what is fun and what can cause anxiety in children. Correlational research has proven that there is a relationship between children who attend academic programs and their level of anxiety. This relationship does not describe a cause and effect event. Meaning, there could be other variables that have caused the anxiety. However, the correlational research still stands strong. We, as a society, should not be force feeding children with knowledge that they are not cognitively ready to comprehend. As Winerman stated, " For most adults, kindergarten brings back images of Play-Dough, building blocks and maybe a teacher reading aloud." This is good because childhood should be fun. Children should not have to grow up too quickly. Children need to learn, but we should make it a fun experience for them, so that we can possibly produce more happy and relaxed people of our future.

  Autonomy is very important in early childhood. Autonomy can be described as independence or the urge to do something on one's own authority. Play oriented schools allow children to exercise the autonomy because they will need it later in life. In academic oriented schools, children are told what to do instead of allowing them the freedom to choose. For example, the daycare I work for puts a strong stress on autonomy. When it is time to clean up the classroom, everybody helps. Instead of the teacher's aides doing all the cleanup work, the children are cleaning up their own independent messes. This is helpful for both the staff and the children. The children get a clean room and they feel accomplished because they were able to do it.

  Parents are not believing in play-oriented programs because of the persistent fear of children falling behind. So what can be done? Many renowned psychologists like Hirsh-Pasek and another psychologist by the name of David Elkind have tried to fight against this tide of parental fear. They have published books promoting exploration and play in early childhood. However, they feel as though, "they are swimming against the tide when it comes to convincing parents," (Winerman 2009). Elkind's published book, called "The Hurried Child" warns parents about pushing children into academics and adulthood. Both psychologists have seen this hurrying of the child accelerate even more. More and more researchers have found that play is important. "The importance of play as a pedagogy for healthy childhood development has been studied at length and, consistently, findings from western industrialized countries demonstrate that play-based learning is the most effective pedagogy used in the primary/elementary grades," (Fusco and Jachyra 2016). And of course, all of this is due to the fact that parents are afraid of their children falling behind. According to Hirsh-Pasek, "Just as important [reading writing and math] are creativity, critical thinking and the ability to learn from failure-all skills are best learned through play," (Winerman 2009). Play is very important in early childhood and I believe more school all over the world should be play-oriented for the better interest of the children and our future.

  References
    
    Jachyra, P., & Fusco, C. (2016). The place of play: From playground to policy to classroom well-being. Sport, Education and Society, 21(2), 217-238. doi:10.1080/13573322.2014.896331 
    Stegelin, D. A. (2005). Making the case for play policy: Research-based reasons to support play-based environments. YC Young Children, 60(2), 76-85. Retrieved fromhttp://www.jstor.org.libaccess.sjlibrary.org/stable/42729217
    Winerman, L. (2009). Playtime in Peril. American Psychological Association. Retrieved from print version: page 50.
